To test out our Virtex colors Let's go ahead and export this lamp out.
I'm going to select both objects of the lamp and go to file and export and FBI x.
I want to make sure and choose selected object.
I don't want to export everything in the scene at this point in time at all.
I'll just go ahead to my export folder here and I'll call this table lamp.
All right.
And let's export that out.
Now let's go over to substance painter and take a look at how we can use those Virtex colors to delineate
different materials.
So over here in substance painter we can bring in that SBX.
Now I'll go up to file new and for this I'm going to use this PBR metal rough template and let me show
you in unity.
If we go back to unity and take a look at this and just look at one of our materials.
Let's open up this coffee table top material.
We've got an el bedo which is the color channel.
We've got a metallic and a smoothness.
Now the metallic and the smoothness is the same thing as we go back to substance.
Painter the metal and the rough so roughness is just the opposite of smoothness right.
So are metal rough template here is going to work just fine in unity.
I'll go ahead and click select to bring in my table lamp.
Here it is and open and then OK.
And there it is.
So now you can see in much the same way that unity was able to take a look at the different objects
in different materials of the model and split it out based on material that same thing is happening
over here.
So our texture set we have a texture set for the lamp base and a texture set for the lamp shade.
Now the lamp base remember we use the Virtex paint tool to add different colors to the base.
So to use those if we select the base over here and go to our texture set settings and click on bake
textures we're going to bake texture maps out that are going to allow substance painter to apply its
materials onto the different parts of the object.
But in here we need to do one more thing we need to come in here to the ID section and instead of having
its source be the material color we want it to be the vertex color.
So now if we come down here and choose bake lamp base textures it will begin to generate the textures
that substance painter needs.
All right so here they are it's generated a normal map world space ambient occlusion all this.
But you can see here it's generated in an ID or a color ID map that we can use to split out the different
parts of the model.
So let's see what we can do with this.
I'm going to create groups or folders here.
And each one of these folders or groups is going to allow me to pick a particular vertex color and everything
within that group will only show through for that vertex color.
So let's say this is the the lamp base bottom and we'll create another group for the main part I guess
and we'll create another group for the top part and we go.
So for the bottom let's right click on this choose add mask with color selection.
Let's come over here.
Choose pick color.
And now we can see those vertex colors that we created in Blender.
So I'll come over here and just click on the red part for the bottom can click on it here or over here
and now whatever we put in this group is going to be constrained by this particular vertex color.
So here I'm going to go ahead and create a couple of fill layers right here.
One and Two and I need to drag these in to the group so I'll take them into here.
And there they are.
So let's say we want that bottom part to be kind of a brass color.
Here's a brass I can use that so I've selected that fill layer and click on the brass and there it is.
And notice that it's only showing through.
Based on that red Virtex color that we selected I think I want some sort of dirt or something underneath
that so maybe so maybe I'll choose this steel rough.
Here let me choose this fill layer.
Click on the steel ruff and now we need to allow that to show through so I'm going to right click on
the first Lehre choose a black mask and for that black mask you can see it showing through there.
I'm going to choose a generator and for that generator I'll choose a dirt mask here.
So now you can see.
Let me zoom in here.
You've got that brass material with that steel rough material showing through.
Now we can invert this over here and you can turn the invert on.
See how that works.
It doesn't look too bad and we can of course adjust all kinds of parameters over here the grunge amount
the dirt level et cetera.
But for now I think I'll just go with this.
Let's do the next part let's say the next part we want to be that kind of whitish color that we saw
in the reference image.
So once again I'll come up here to that main group which is this part.
All right click choose add mask with color and now pick a color.
And this time I want to pick the blue right here.
And in this group once again I want to add to fill layers.
So I'll come up here add one and two.
Drag them into the group right there they're and for this I want to choose maybe this plastic.
That's a nice material for this war.
That's shiny.
Let's get that the proper color.
Something like that maybe.
And for this one here maybe I'll do a little bit of fine rust.
Let's try that.
OK so now I can take this one here and add a black mask so the bottom one shows through and then I'll
add a generator to have it only show through.
Based on this dirt mask here so I click that begins to show through let me click invert and see what
happens.
Yaseen I like that.
OK.
Good.
The next one let's do one last one let's do the top.
This one I think should be kind of a silver medal.
So once again add to Phil Lares drag him in
mask with color.
Select that green and for this I want a steel rough and for this one that's going to show through maybe
this rust course and then let's add our black mask.
And our generator and select generator over here I think invert it and there we go.
So now it's looking sufficiently dirty and kind of nasty.
And there is the base of our lamp.
Now of course there's more we can do here.
There's lots of settings to adjust.
But my point here was not to give a thorough tutorial on substance painter.
My point is that once again there's yet another way to organize your objects and your materials for
export out of Blendr in this way.
We had one object one material and used our Virtex paint tool to break that one material up into individual
areas that a program like substance painter or pixel studio will allow us to isolate and use almost
as if it's its own material.
All right.
So let's go ahead and export out our texture maps for this texture set into unity and then in the next
video we'll go ahead and import everything into unity and see how it looks.
All right.
So I'm going to go up here to file export textures and I want to choose a configuration.
Here we've got a unity five standard metallic which is what we want.
We're using that metal rough template and in here we've got a lamp shade and a lamp base we don't need
the lamp shade.
We didn't do anything with that and the lamp base we don't need 2048 we could probably take this down
to say 5:12 Let's try that.
And within here within this texture set you can see we've got the albedo which is the color channel
we've got the combination metallic and smoothness here.
And we've got the normal map and on a mission map that we're not going to be using.
So I want to select where this is going to go.
And for this I want to put it right in my Unity project right here.
And I'll go into the assets folder go into textures and this time I'll create a brand new folder and
just call this table lamp and in here I will drop all of these texture maps so I'll just click export
and there they go.
So coming up we'll go into unity and we'll plug them all in to the Unity material.